Experiments with background segmentation algorithms - https://github.com/VladX/bgs
Machine Learning based Solutions for Common Computer Vision Problems - https://github.com/pransen/ComputerVisionAlgorithms

BG Modeling Steps:

Background initialization: The first aim to build a background model is to fix number of frames. This model can be designed by various ways (Guassian, fuzzy etc.).
Foreground detection: In the next frames, a comparison is processed between the current frame and the background model. This subtraction leads to the computation of the foreground of the scene.
Background maintenance: During this detection process, images are also analyzed in order to update the background model learned at the initialization step, with respect to a learning rate. An object not moving during long time should be integrated in the background for example.

BACKGROUND SUBTRACTION - 2 METHODS:
Adaptive BG Learning: In a simple way, this can be done by setting manually a static image that represents the background, and having no moving object
For each video frame, compute the absolute difference between the current frame and the static image.
If absolute difference exceeds threshold, frame is regarded as background, otherwise foreground.

Gaussian mixture model (GMM): In order to model a background which is dynamic texture(such as waves on the water or trees shaken by the wind), each pixel with a mixture of K Gaussians distributions is modeled.
For each video frames, find the probability of input pixel value x from current frame at time t being a background pixel is represented by the following mixture of Gaussians
A new pixel is checked against the exiting K Gaussian distributions, until a match is found.
If none of K distributions match the current pixel value, the least probable distribution is replaced
with a distribution with the current value as its mean value.
If pixel values cannot match the background model distributions, they will be labeled “in motion”, otherwise background pixel.